---
layout: ../../layouts/BlogPost.astro
title: "Colossians 1:15-23"
date: "2024-03-30"
---

>He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities—all things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross.
>
>And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds, he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death, in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him, if indeed you continue in the faith, stable and steadfast, not shifting from the hope of the gospel that you heard, which has been proclaimed in all creation under heaven, and of which I, Paul, became a minister. (Col 1:15–23 ESV)

Paul breaks out into a brief moment of worship highlighting the grandeur and supremacy of Christ. "He is the image of the invisible God". Christ is in His essence the diety but took on human form, making him the perfect divine revelation, and it is by God's divine self revelation that he can be known. 

>"First born of all creation" 

This does not mean that Christ is created, but that He is the principal heir. To Him belongs the inheritance of all creation. What is included in that? By all creation is meant all things. Paul gives us examples: heaven and earth, visible and invisible, thrones or dominions, rulers or authorities. "All things were created through Him and for Him". That is to say He is both the agent and the goal of creation. Through him all was made and to Him all was made. "He is before all things". Again this is not that he was created, but that He is preeminent; the firstborn. "in him all things hold together". He was not just the agent by which all was made, he is also the one who is actively holding all things together. As it is his inheritance, why shouldn't he sustain it as well?

>"He is the head of the body, the church"

We who have faith in Christ, in his gospel, live, as Paul describes elsewhere, as one body. Each member of a body has a specific role and function; Christ then,  being the head, is over all other parts, controlling and overseeing them all. "He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead". Christ, in his death and ressurection, has ushered in the new creation. "That in everything he might be preemininent". Here is where the preeminence of Christ as the first born is made clear. Even now, among the new creation, Christ is preeminent; all that was created was created through him and for him, and all that has been given the ressurection fo the dead, is risen through him and for him. He is both the agent and the goal of the ressurection, and "in him all thing hold together". Christ, in His nature, is the sure hope Paul has been talking of to this point. For why shouldn't Christ sustain what is his?

>"For in Him the fullness of God was pleased to dwell" 

God used to dwell in a temple in order to let his people be in his presence. His glory and holiness is such that if he were to meet such fallen creatures as us, face to face, then we would drop dead instantly. However, Christ, in his perfection and preeminence, is the fulfillment of the old testament temple. Within Christ, the fullness of God is pleased to dwell, and so it is only through Christ that we have access to God. To the Colossians, this knowledge is imperative, as they are being led astray by false teaching that promotes works. To us this is imperative because we now have access to the Godhead through Christ by His Spirit. Christ, through whom all was created, to whom all is given, by whom all is sustained, is the temple. A holy dwelling.

>"For in him the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things"

 Through Christ all was created and for him all was created, but man fell. Dead in our trespasses and sins, we could no longer dwell with Christ in his righteousness and glory. But Christ, being rich in mercy made "peace by the blood of the cross" (v20). Reconciling to himself all things. If the fullness of God is pleased to dwell in him, and Christ, through the blood on the cross, is reconciling all things to himself, then all things may find the full presence of God within Christ. This is significant for the Colossian church because it further denies that there can be any access to God other than through Christ, who alone has completed the work of reconciliation through his death and ressurrection.

Paul identifies three states of the Colossians, each containing three attributes. First is their pre-gospel state, that is, prior to their conversion. Paul says that they were alienated, hostile in mind, and doing evil. While alienated and hostile in mind are placed together in the text, I separate them to describe them more clearly. Alienation means that they were separated from God in their thinking, and hostile means that in their separation, they were enemies of God. This alienated and hostile thinking gave way to "evil deeds" and likely false religion.

Second, Christ, now having reconciled them to himself by his death, presents them in their gospel state, post-conversion. To reconcile them would mean, in part, to do away with their alienation, hostility, and evil deeds, and this is what's described. Christ presents them, that is, in the resurrection, for that is again what is meant by "in his body of flesh"—that is, his physically resurrected body—for we do not hope in a corpse. He presents them holy and blameless, and above reproach. While once alienated from God’s people, the Colossians are now set apart as God's people. And once being hostile and doing evil, they are now blameless and above reproach; no longer is their hostility counted, as they are blameless, and no longer are their evil deeds seen, but they are presented as being above reproach. Christ has done the work here. He completed the work of reconciliation, and it is he who does the presenting.

While the Colossians are no longer alienated, they are not yet being presented. This is the third state, and our present state, for which Paul gives instruction on how to obtain the sure hope in Christ that he has been describing. That is, to continue in the faith in this hope. To continue in the faith is to be stable, steadfast, and not shifting. To be stable means that we are not tossed to and fro by opponents of the gospel. To be steadfast means that we are not only rejecting the opponents of the gospel but are clinging to our hope in response. The third and final "not shifting" doesn't just restate the first two as a negative, but emphasizes that the individual is tempted to wander and "shift" from the hope they have in Christ.