---
layout: ../../layouts/BlogPost.astro
title: "The Supremacy of Christ and the Hope of the Gospel (Col 1:1-14)"
date: "2024-03-25"
---

>Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother,
>
>To the saints and faithful brothers in Christ at Colossae:
>
>Grace to you and peace from God our Father.
>
>We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel, which has come to you, as indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit and increasing—as it also does among you, since the day you heard it and understood the grace of God in truth, just as you learned it from Epaphras our beloved fellow servant. He is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf and has made known to us your love in the Spirit.
>
>And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him: bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God; being strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy; giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. (Col 1:1-14 ESV)

Paul introduces his letter to the Colossian church first by signing his own name, then by introducing his title as an apostle of Christ Jesus. That is not an apostle in general, but of Christ specifically, and he says he has this title "by the will of God" (v1). So, from the opening line, Paul declares to the Colossians that by God's will, he was given the role of apostle for the sake of the ministry of Christ. This statement, and proceeding letter, is addressed to the "saints and faithful brothers in Christ at Colossae" (v2). As a church, they're being torn to-and-fro by different false teachers, so Paul, addressing the faithful brothers in Christ, establishes first and foremost that he is writing to them to teach them, with authority, the true gospel of Chirst, and that he has such authority from God himself. This puts his teaching firmly and securely above the false teachers and false brothers who have infected the church.

Paul hadn't visited Colossae, so when Epaphras brought him news of their "faith in Christ Jesus and of the love [they] have toward the saints", they would pray for them. Paul tells us a bit about these prayers: First, that they are thanking God, setting the stage that the work that has been done is His doing. Second, he refers to God as "the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ", establishing the Lordship and authority of Christ himself. That he was not merely a prophet, but the true Son of God. Third, is that he prays for them with regularity. "When we pray for you" is in active-past-tense. Meaning that Paul was one of the ones doing the praying. And "pray" here is a plural verb indicating that they've prayed for them on more than one occasion.

Paul then gives three reasons for the prayer: First is their "faith in Christ"; second, is their "love" of all the saints; and third, is "because" of the hope laid up for them in heaven. While hope is listed third, it is said to be the cause of the first two. The Colossian church was dealing with false teachers, some of whom were emphasizing a religious tradition and bringing into question the sufficiency of Christ, so Paul's emphasis on hope as the foundation for faith and love is vitally important. Paul never talks of hope as mere wishful thinking and here is no different. He says to them that their hope is "laid up for you in heaven". That is it has been set apart and reserved for them in heaven not by their own work, because who on earth can secure and guarantee something of heaven? That Christ has reserved for them a hope in heaven is the foundation of their faith in Christ and their love of the saints.

Paul now takes a moment to talk "of this" hope. The first thing he says is that they've heard this hope before when the gospel was first preached to them by Epaphras. Second, is that it was understood. Of the first, he says that the preaching of the gospel came to them, but not to them only. He says "indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit and increasing" (v6). He says this in part to question the legitimacy of the false teachers. Because if the gospel hope that Paul is now teaching is consistent with the gospel that was originally preached to them - and it is - and it is the same gospel hope that has gone out into the world, then where do these false teachers get their teaching? Either they preach with authority as prophets, or they are false teachers who have distorted the teaching of the gospel. Paul, having already established that he is an apostle by the will of God, can preach with authority, but he only preaches the same gospel that they previously heard. Therefore the teachers who divert must be false teachers. 

The first act, hearing, is tied to the word of truth going out, but the second act, understanding, is tied to bearing fruit and increasing. The logic goes: the Colossians heard the gospel, which came to them as it bears fruit and increases throughout the world. Bearing fruit among them is evidence that it is the same gospel, and indeed it is. As he says it "also does among you", and how the gospel has produced fruit among them "since the day you heard it and understood". Understanding the gospel takes possession of the whole being, producing the fruit of good works; not as a means of acquiring salvation by works, but as a result of the hope that has been set before us.

So, having heard of the hope they have in Christ, Paul tells them that they "have not ceased to pray" for them. While it is good to pray for the word going out into the world, one must not cease to pray for conversion alone. Continue to pray for the brothers and sisters who are now walking with Christ. Paul then tells us about the content of his prayer for the Colossian church. The prayer is simple: "you may be filled with knowledge of His will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding (v9). But what does that actually mean to the Colossians? Paul goes on to explain several attributes that are contained within this seemingly simple prayer.

First, "so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to Him" (v10). That is to live in righteousness, not as a way of performance, but that which is "pleasing to Him". Which simply means to do so in sincerity. God desires the whole heart, not lip-service. Second, is that they are "bearing fruit in every good work". Third, that they are "increasing in the knowledge of God". Now these first three are closely bound together, with the latter two describing the former. So if you were to reverse it, you get: increase in the knowledge of God, and bear fruit in every good work, so as to walk in a manner that is fully pleasing to God. This is consistent with what Paul wrote in verse six, that understanding leads to bearing fruit. So the Christian seeking to increase in knowledge and understanding, in all sincerity and not as a show of intellect, may bear fruit in every good work, not as a display of individual righteousness, but in a manner worthy of the Lord, will then be walking in a way fully pleasing to the Lord. That is why Paul prays that they "may be filled with knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding."

Fourth, is so that they may "be strengthened with all power according to His glorious might". What is this power that strengthens the Christian? In Eph 1:19-23, Paul describes God's "power toward us who believe" as the same power that raised Christ from the dead and seated Him at the right hand of the Father. It is the power that placed him over all things and made him the head of the church. Again in Eph 3:16, Paul calls this the "power that strengthens us". Paul is praying for this power to strengthen the Colossians.

**How does the power of God in the resurrection of Christ strengthen the believer?**

In three ways: for endurance, for patience, and with joy. In verse twelve, Paul describes how the power of God works in believers. First, is that he qualifies us to share in the inheritance. We cannot earn the the inheritance through works, but by the grace of God through Christ, he qualifies us. Second, he delivers us from the "domain of darkness". That is the dominion of those who are perishing, who have no light in the hope of the gospel. And third, He transfers us to "the kingdom of his beloved son". While the full kingdom of Christ will come in His second coming, we are made citizens of it through the power of God. Now God's power is effective, that is it actually produces the results that God desires. Which means that the power of God through Christ effectively qualifies us, delivers - or pulls us out of - and transfers us - that is makes us citizens of his kingdom.

**But how does the working of God's power strengthen the believer for endurance, patience, and with joy?**

While talk of endurance in Paul's letters tends to refer to persecution - and likely does here as well - he may be alluding to, at least in part, enduring in the gospel from the pressure of the false teachers. The believer is then strengthened to endure by knowing that it is God who has qualified them so that no outside sources or false teachers may now disqualify them. We are therefore strengthened with patience knowing that we are no longer in darkness, but we await the kingdom to which we now belong. And, in both endurance and patience, we have joy through thanksgiving for the power that is at work in us through Christ, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.