---
layout: ../../layouts/BlogPost.astro
title: "Psalm 149"
date: "2024-11-20"
---

The Lord's people praise his name. Like children, the Lord's people dance and sing, making music to praise the Lord. Why? "For the Lord takes pleasure in his people; he adorns the humble with salvation" (v4). Christ says “Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven” (Matt 19:14). So the kingdom belongs to those with faith like a child; faith that is humble and meek, yet eager to sing out “Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!” (Matt 21:9). It is in faith like this that the Lord takes pleasure, that he adorns with salvation (v4). Do not be deceived by stoic models that dedicate all worship to being somber events. No, rejoice in the Lord and praise him as a child. For it says: "Let the godly exult in glory; let them sing for joy on their beds" (v5). God is always worthy of praise, so then all times are suited for joyful praising. From singing songs with his people to praising him from our own beds. Corporately and privately, all times and all places are suited for praising the Lord who fills all things (Eph 1:23). 

But praise is not the only work of God's people for it says "Let the high praises of God be in their throats and two-edged swords in their hands" (v6). For the nation of Israel, their physical swords were an extension of God's hand upon the nations. For judgment upon the likes of Canaan, and for blessing upon Israel. Their labor in war and conquering was not an end in itself, but was the means of carrying out God's blessings and curses. This verse is therefore not about physical war and conquering, but is about the Word of God, represented as a two-edged sword, delivering both blessing and curse. That is the symbol of the two edges. One word, the sword, bringing both blessing and curse. And the word is the gospel, the glorious work of Christ. For those who receive it, as children with humility and rejoicing, the Lord adorns with salvation. But the same gospel is judgment upon those who reject it. For to reject Christ, who is himself the only way (Jn 14:6), is to embrace punishment. And it is of their own doing, for Christ has bound "their kings with chains" (v8), taking away the rule of Satan over all the earth so that all who are guilty are guilty of themselves, and those whom he has redeemed are no longer counted as guilty (Col 2:13-15).

So the people of God are to praise the Lord always with humble and glad rejoicing, and in their hand they are to bear the gospel as a sword. To those who reject Christ, it will be a weapon of judgment, but to those whom the Lord has called, it will be as a cunductor's wand, directing them in the choir of God's people. 